# air-seapration-plants
Air Separation Plant, the Government of India has chalked out an ambitious plan to have a network of reliable oxygen supply and availability in all districts to meet any emergency situation arising out. It has proposed to install 961 Liquid Medical Oxygen Storage Tanks (LMOST) to support 1450 facilities for the Medical Gas Pipeline System (MGPS) spread all over the country. The aim is to have at least one MGPS unit in each district to meet the local demand. In India, a district is an administrative block to cater a sizable population of an area. Each state has several districts with varying population and geographical areas. Each district is supervised by a nodal official, District Magistrate (DM), an IAS rank official. The oxygen grid has been planned to meet the local demand in case of an emergency without causing panic among patients making them rush to other places. During the second deadly corona wave, lack of oxygen in medical hospitals, especially at the district level caused immense hardships to corona patients requiring hospitalisation and ventilator. Air Separation Plant, they have to rush to the state's capital or neighboring big cities and towns to get their patients admitted. Even medical facilities in these places ran out of oxygen as there was no way to immediately refill empty tankers and cylinders causing panic, chaos and death. Medical Gas Pipeline Systems (MGPS) systems are designed to store and transport medical oxygen and other medical gases. These systems are usually installed in hospital special purpose rooms, ambulances or mobile hospital systems. The MGPS tank can be filled with pure oxygen via a filling nipple, or filled with a mixture of oxygen and compressed air via tangential gas connection. The Liquid Medical Oxygen Storage Tank provides continuous flow liquid oxygen service for a range of standard medical gases including oxygen and Nitrogen. Liquid Oxygen Storage Tanks range from 50L to 5000L in cylinder sizes and with a variety of configurations. The Liquid Storage Systems are a cost effective, heavy duty option for the safe storage of liquid gases and compressed air. The most common production method for medical oxygen is through Air Separation Units ASUs or Air Separation Plant (ASP). ASUs are primarily used for production of medical oxygen from nitrogen and oxygen-rich air. These process gases are produced from air in the range of gaseous purity from 99.95% N2+O2 to 99.99% N2 or O2 by blending the incoming air with lower purity at ambient temperature and pressure oxygen is processed in large volumes at the Air Separation Plants.
